Madaleines/private providers docs (#2137)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/cloud-docs/api-docs/providers.mdx

- The public registry discovery endpoints have the path prefix provided in the [discovery document](/registry/api-docs#service-discovery) which is currently `/api/registry/public/v1`.
- [Authentication](/cloud-docs/api-docs/#authentication) is handled the same as all other Terraform Cloud endpoints.

## List Public Terraform Registry Providers for an Organization

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                    |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to list available providers from. |

> Lists the public and private providers  included in the private registry for the specified organization. 

Reviewer: The title here suggests this is just public, but there we say both public and private - should we change one?

`POST /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to create a provider in. The organization must already exist, and the token authenticating the API request must belong to the "owners" team or a member of the "owners" team. |

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

#### Private Providers

> The private provider record will be available in the organization's registry provider list immediately after creation, but you must create a version and upload all necessary release assets before consumers can use the provider in configurations. Release assets include the `SHA256SUMS` file, the `SHA256SUMS.sig` file, and the GPG signing key. Refer to the [Publishing a Private Provider](/cloud-docs/registry/publish-providers) documentation for more details.
> 
> The private registry does not automatically update private providers when you release new versions. You must explicitly create and upload each new version with the [Create a Provider Version](#create-a-provider-version) endpoint.

Reviewer: need a blank line between the title and the text :-) 

```suggestion

The private provider will be visible in the organization's registry provider list immediately after creation, but you must create a version, create a platform, and upload all necessary release assets before consumers can use the provider in configurations. Release assets include the `SHA256SUMS` file, the `SHA256SUMS.sig` file, provider binaries, and the GPG signing key. Refer to the [Publishing a Private Provider](/cloud-docs/registry/publish-providers) documentation for more details.

The private registry does not automatically update private providers when you release new versions. You must explicitly create and upload each new version with the [Create a Provider Version](#create-a-provider-version) endpoint.
```

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

> #### Private providers

Reviewer 2: Might be worth a sentence like 181, that when a private provider is created, it is only usable by organization members?

Author: good call 👍

  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-providers
```

### Sample Response (private provider)

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "prov-cmEmLstBfjNNA9F3",
    "type": "registry-providers",
    "attributes": {
      "name": "aws",
      "namespace": "hashicorp",
      "registry-name": "private",
      "version-statuses": [],
      "created-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59.533Z",
      "updated-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59.533Z",
      "permissions": {
        "can-delete": true
      }
    },
    "relationships": {
      "organization": {
        "data": {
          "id": "my-organization",
          "type": "organizations"
        }
      },
      "versions": {
        "data": [],
        "links": {

>           "related": "/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws"

Reviewer 2: Same namespace inconsistency here -- perhaps change hashicorp to my-organization to match the rest of the response/request.

Author: thanks for catching these! I will change to 'hashicorp' as it will make it more consistent with the previous documentation for public providers

| [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-provider-versions"`) | Successfully published provider version                      |
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | Malformed request body (missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |
| [403][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | Forbidden - not available for public providers                   |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | User not authorized                                            |

### Request Body

This POST endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Properties without a default value are required.

| Key path                  | Type   | Default | Description                             |
| ------------------------- | ------ | ------- | -------------------------------------   |
| `data.type`               | string |         | Must be `"registry-provider-versions"`. |
| `data.attributes.version` | string |         | A valid semver version string.          |

> | `data.attributes.key_id` | string |          | A valid gpg-key string.                 |

Reviewer 3: This endpoint also takes a protocols field that's an array of one/all of the following values ["4.0","5.0","6.0"]

Reviewer 2: Is it better to have nil or [] to be the default for the protocols field?

}
```

## Upload a GPG Key (private provider)

`POST /api/registry/:registry_name/v2/gpg-keys`

| Parameter            | Description          |
| -------------------- | -------------------- |
| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.   |

Uploads a GPG Key to a private provider. The response will provider a "key-id" which is needed to [Create a Provider Version](#create-a-provider-version) (see below).

| Status  | Response                                                   | Reason                                                         |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "gpg-keys"`)                 | Successfully uploads a GPG key to a private provider           |

Author: Hmm all the other descriptions are in present tense based on the general behavior of what the request is going to do. I think I will leave it as is for now

| `data.attributes.ascii_armor` | string |         | A valid gpg-key string.                                                                     |

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "namespace": "hashicorp",
      "ascii-armor": "-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n\nmQINB...=txfz\n-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n"
    },
    "type": "gpg-keys"
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/registry/private/v2/gpg-keys
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "gpg-keys",
    "id": "23",
    "attributes": {
      "ascii-armor": "-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n\nmQINB...=txfz\n-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n",
      "created-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59Z",
      "key-id": "32966F3FB5AC1129",
      "namespace": "hashicorp",
      "source": "",
      "source-url": null,
      "trust-signature": "",
      "updated-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59Z"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/v2/gpg-keys/23"
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Create a Provider Version

Author: good catch!

              "type": "registry-provider-platforms"
            }
          ],
          "links": {
            "related": "/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms"
          }
        }
      },
      "links": {
        "shasums-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b...",
        "shasums-sig-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "self": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "first": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "prev": null,
    "next": null,
    "last": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20"
  },
  "meta": {
    "pagination": {
      "current-page": 1,
      "page-size": 20,
      "prev-page": null,
      "next-page": null,
      "total-pages": 1,
      "total-count": 1
    }
  }
}
```
### Note

> `shasums-uploaded` and `shasums-sig-uploaded` may be false if those files haven't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including links to `shasums-download` and `shasums-sig-download`, the response will include upload links (`shasums-upload` and `shasums-sig-upload`) instead.

Reviewer 2: may be --> will be

Reviewer 2: the last instead at the end of the sentence is repetitive of the one at the beginning and can be removed

Reviewer 2: also this is. a great thing to call out here 👍 👍

## Get Version (private provider)

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/versions/:version`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization the provider belongs to.                                                    |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider.                                                                           |
| `:name`              | The provider name.                                                                                       |

> | `:version`           | The provider version of the provider for which the platform is being created                             |

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a little unclear because there can be multiple platforms per version.

I'd suggest something like: 
"The version of the provider being created to which different platforms can be added"

Author: haha thank you was a bit brain dead at this point

| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.                                                                                       |

| Status  | Response                                             | Reason                                                    |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-providers"`) | The request was successful                                |
| [403][] | [JSON API error object][]                            | Forbidden - public provider curation disabled             |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                            | Provider not found or user unauthorized to perform action |

### Sample Request 

```shell
curl \
  --request GET \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \

>   https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions//3.1.1

Reviewer 2: Theres an extra `/` after versions/

      "registry-provider": {
        "data": {
          "id": "prov-cmEmLstBfjNNA9F3",
          "type": "registry-providers"
        }
      },
      "platforms": {
        "data": [
          {
            "id": "provpltfrm-GSHhNzptr9s3WoLD",
            "type": "registry-provider-platforms"
          },
          {
            "id": "provpltfrm-A1PHitiM2KkKpVoM",
            "type": "registry-provider-platforms"
          },
          {
            "id": "provpltfrm-BLJWvWyJ2QMs525k",
            "type": "registry-provider-platforms"
          },
          {
            "id": "provpltfrm-qQYosUguetYtXGzJ",
            "type": "registry-provider-platforms"
          },
          {
            "id": "provpltfrm-pjDHFN46y193bS7t",
            "type": "registry-provider-platforms"
          }
        ],
        "links": {
          "related": "/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms"
        }
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "shasums-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b...",
      "shasums-sig-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
    }
  }
}
```

### Note

> `shasums-uploaded` and `shasums-sig-uploaded` may be false if those files haven't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including links to `shasums-download` and `shasums-sig-download`, the response will include upload links (`shasums-upload` and `shasums-sig-upload`) instead.

Reviewer 2: maybe false --> will be false

## Delete a Version (private provider)

`DELETE /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/versions/:provider_version`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to delete a provider version from. The organization must already exist, and the token authenticating the API request must belong to the "owners" team or a member of the "owners" team. |

> | `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider for which the version is being deleted. For private providers this is the same as the `:organization_name` parameter                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider for which the version is being deleted. For private providers this is the same as the `organization_name` parameter.                                                                  |
```

| `:name`              | The name of the provider for which the version is being destroyed                                                                                                                                                    |

> | `:version`           | The version for the provider that will be deleted                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: Will the platforms attached to the version also be deleted? I assume so and maybe it's safe to assume folks would assume that? Or is it safer to note that the version for the provider along with the versions corresponding platforms that is being destroyed?

      "type": "gpg-keys",
      "id": "23",
      "attributes": {
        "ascii-armor": "-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n\nmQINB...=txfz\n-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n",
        "created-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59Z",
        "key-id": "32966F3FB5AC1129",
        "namespace": "hashicorp",
        "source": "",
        "source-url": null,
        "trust-signature": "",
        "updated-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59Z"
      },
      "links": {
        "self": "/v2/gpg-keys/23"
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "first": "/v2/gpg-keys?filter%5Bnamespace%5D=hashicorp&page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=15",
    "last": "/v2/gpg-keys?filter%5Bnamespace%5D=hashicorp&page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=15",
    "next": null,
    "prev": null
  },
  "meta": {
    "pagination": {
      "page-size": 15,
      "current-page": 1,
      "next-page": null,
      "prev-page": null,
      "total-pages": 1,
      "total-count": 1
    }
  }
}
```

## Add a GPG Key (Private Provider)

`POST /api/registry/:registry_name/v2/gpg-keys`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description          |
| -------------------- | -------------------- |
| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.   |

> Uploads a GPG Key to a private registry scoped with a namespace. The response will provide a "key-id" which is needed to [Create a Provider Version](#create-a-provider-version) (see below).

Reviewer: Just checking - should the parameter be in a code block? (if this isn't how we do it elsewhere, ignore me)

```suggestion
Uploads a GPG Key to a private registry scoped with a namespace. The response will provide a "key-id", which is required to [Create a Provider Version](#create-a-provider-version).
```

Author: The key path params further below need a code black (seen further beneath Sample Payload).

These params are referring to the path url :)

  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/registry/private/v2/gpg-keys
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "gpg-keys",
    "id": "23",
    "attributes": {
      "ascii-armor": "-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n\nmQINB...=txfz\n-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n",
      "created-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59Z",
      "key-id": "32966F3FB5AC1129",
      "namespace": "hashicorp",
      "source": "",
      "source-url": null,
      "trust-signature": "",
      "updated-at": "2022-02-11T19:16:59Z"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/v2/gpg-keys/23"
    }
  }
}
```

## Get GPG Key (Private Provider)

`GET /api/registry/:registry_name/v2/gpg-keys/:namespace/:key_id`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                          |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.                                   |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider scoped to the GPG key. | 
| `:key_id`            | The id of the GPG key.                               |

> Gets the content of a GPG key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the content of a GPG key.
```

Author: darnit, I really thought I got all of them lol

  --request GET \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/registry/private/v2/gpg-keys/hashicorp/32966F3FB5AC1129
```

### Sample Response
```json
  "data": {
    "type": "gpg-keys",
    "id": "2",
    "attributes": {
      "ascii-armor": "-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n\nmQINB...=txfz\n-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n",
      "created-at": "2022-02-24T17:07:25Z",
      "key-id": "32966F3FB5AC1129",
      "namespace": "hashicorp",
      "source": "",
      "source-url": null,
      "trust-signature": "",
      "updated-at": "2022-02-24T17:07:25Z"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/v2/gpg-keys/2"
    }
  }
}
```

## Update a GPG Key (Private Provider)

`PATCH /api/registry/:registry_name/v2/gpg-keys/:namespace/:key_id`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                          |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.                                   |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider scoped to the GPG key. | 
| `:key_id`            | The id of the GPG key.                               |

> Updates the GPG key. Only the `namespace` attribute is allowed to be updated and has to match a namespace/organization the User has access to.

Author: For private providers the namespace has to match the organization a user has access to. I'll simplify it to `organization` as it is an attribute too

          }
        }
      },
      "links": {
        "provider-binary-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "self": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "first": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "prev": null,
    "next": null,
    "last": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20"
  },
  "meta": {
    "pagination": {
      "current-page": 1,
      "page-size": 20,
      "prev-page": null,
      "next-page": null,
      "total-pages": 1,
      "total-count": 2
    }
  }
}
```

**Note:** `provider-binary-uploaded` will be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`, the response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload`.

> ## Get Platform (Private Provider)

Reviewer: Get a Platform?

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/versions/:version/platforms/:os/:arch`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization the provider belongs to.                                        |
| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.                                                                           |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. Must be the same as the `organization_name` for the provider. |
| `:name`              | The provider name.                                                                           |
| `:version`           | The version of the provider.                                                                 |

> | `:os`                | The os of the provider platform.                                                             |

Reviewer: can we spell out operating system?

### Sample Request (Private Provider)

```shell
curl \
  --request GET \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms/linux/amd64
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "provpltfrm-BLJWvWyJ2QMs525k",
    "type": "registry-provider-platforms",
    "attributes": {
      "os": "linux",
      "arch": "amd64",
      "filename": "terraform-provider-aws_3.1.1_linux_amd64.zip",
      "shasum": "8f69533bc8afc227b40d15116358f91505bb638ce5919712fbb38a2dec1bba38",
      "permissions": {
        "can-delete": true,
        "can-upload-asset": true
      },
      "provider-binary-uploaded": true
    },
    "relationships": {
      "registry-provider-version": {
        "data": {
          "id": "provver-y5KZUsSBRLV9zCtL",
          "type": "registry-provider-versions"
        }
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "provider-binary-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Note
> 
> `provider-binary-uploaded` will be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`, the response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** The `provider-binary-uploaded` attribute will be `false` if that file has not been uploaded to Archivist. In that case, instead of including a download link `provider-binary-download`, the response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload`.
```

> ## Delete Platform (Private Provider)

Reviewer: Delete a Platform?

| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider for which the platform is being deleted. For private providers this is the same as the `:organization_name` parameter.                                                                   |
| `:name`              | The name of the provider for which the platform is being deleted.                                                                                                                                                    |
| `:version`           | The version for which the platform is being deleted.                                                                                                                                                                 |

> | `:os`                | The os of the provider platform that is being deleted.                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `:os`                | The operating system of the provider platform that is being deleted.                                                                                                                                                               |
```

## Get a Provider

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization the provider belongs to.                                                        |
| `:registry_name`     | Whether this is a publicly maintained provider or private. Must be either `public` or `private`.             |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. For private providers this is the same as the `:organization_name` parameter. |
| `:name`              | The provider name.                                                                                           |

| Status  | Response                                             | Reason                                                    |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |

> | [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-providers"`) | The request was successful                                |

Reviewer: Again - should we just change all of these to "Success"?

Author: yes, so much simpler!

| [403][] | [JSON API error object][] | Forbidden - public provider curation disabled               |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | Provider not found or user not authorized to perform action |

### Sample Request 

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request DELETE \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/public/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1
```

> ## Upload a Provider Platform (private provider)

Reviewer: I feel like all of these ones that say upload should be "Add" or "Create". How do we do this for other API docs?

> ## Upload a Provider Platform (private provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Provider Platform (Private Provider)
```

| `data.attributes.filename` | string |          | A valid filename string.                 |

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "registry-provider-version-platforms",
    "attributes": {
      "os": "linux",
      "arch": "amd64",
      "shasum": "8f69533bc8afc227b40d15116358f91505bb638ce5919712fbb38a2dec1bba38",
      "filename": "terraform-provider-aws_3.1.1_linux_amd64.zip"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "provpltfrm-BLJWvWyJ2QMs525k",
    "type": "registry-provider-platforms",
    "attributes": {
      "os": "linux",
      "arch": "amd64",
      "filename": "terraform-provider-aws_3.1.1_linux_amd64.zip",
      "shasum": "8f69533bc8afc227b40d15116358f91505bb638ce5919712fbb38a2dec1bba38",
      "permissions": {
        "can-delete": true,
        "can-upload-asset": true
      },

>       "provider-binary-uploaded": false

Reviewer 2: Would the response be "provider-binary-uploaded": true ? Or does the curl on 796 not upload the binary but just adds the name etc? I know. we just did this, but since I did the curl differently... I am not sure.
If the curl above does upload the binary, it could also be helpful to change line 831 to be "provider-binary-download"

Author: The [Upload provider binary curl request](https://gist.github.com/jbonhag/362cef97e1389a5d2bc7cab87fa1ba79#upload-provider-binary) happens after this step

    },
    "relationships": {
      "registry-provider-version": {
        "data": {
          "id": "provver-y5KZUsSBRLV9zCtL",
          "type": "registry-provider-versions"
        }
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "provider-binary-upload": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
    }
  }
}

```

> ## Get all platforms for a single version (private provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get Platforms for a Provider Version (Private Provider)
```

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/versions/:version/platforms`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization the provider belongs to.                                                    |

> | `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. Must be the same as the `organization_name` for the provider              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. Must be the same as the `organization_name` for the provider.              |
```

Reviewer: @madaleines we're inconsistent about whether we include the colon when we're talking about the parameter or not. I've been removing it when we've been talking about it in the description, but please let me know if it should stay. Here for example, it's not included.

| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`.                                                                                       |

| Status  | Response                                             | Reason                                                    |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-providers"`) | The request was successful                                |
| [403][] | [JSON API error object][]                            | Forbidden - public provider curation disabled             |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                            | Provider not found or user unauthorized to perform action |

### Sample Request 

```shell
curl \
  --request GET \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {

>       "id": "provpltfrm-GSHhNzptr9s3WoLD",

Reviewer 2: Maybe only 2 or 3 platforms in the example output to make it shorter?

Author: yeah def a good idea to shorten

        },
        "provider-binary-uploaded": true
      },
      "relationships": {
        "registry-provider-version": {
          "data": {
            "id": "provver-y5KZUsSBRLV9zCtL",
            "type": "registry-provider-versions"
          }
        }
      },
      "links": {
        "provider-binary-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "self": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "first": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "prev": null,
    "next": null,
    "last": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20"
  },
  "meta": {
    "pagination": {
      "current-page": 1,
      "page-size": 20,
      "prev-page": null,
      "next-page": null,
      "total-pages": 1,
      "total-count": 5
    }
  }
}
```

### Note

> `provider-binary-uploaded` may be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`. The response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload` instead.

Reviewer 2: maybe be false --> will be false

Reviewer 2: after `provider-binary-download` the period should be a comma, and then you can drop the last instead as well

> ### Note
> 
> `provider-binary-uploaded` may be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`. The response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Note

-> **Note:** The `provider-binary-uploaded` will be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`, the response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload`.
```

## Get Platform (private provider)

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/versions/:version/platforms/:os/:arch`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization the provider belongs to.                                                    |

> | `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. Must be the same as the `organization_name` for the provider              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. Must be the same as the `organization_name` for the provider.              |
```

| `:version`           | The version of the provider.                                                                             |
| `:os`                | The os of the provider platform.                                                                         |
| `:arch`              | The architecture of the provider platform.                                                               |
| `:registry_name`     | Must be `private`. |

| Status  | Response                                             | Reason                                                    |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-providers"`) | The request was successful                                |
| [403][] | [JSON API error object][]                            | Forbidden - public provider curation disabled             |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                            | Provider not found or user unauthorized to perform action |

> ### Sample Request (private provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample Request (Private Provider)
```

```shell
curl \
  --request GET \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms/linux/amd64
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "provpltfrm-BLJWvWyJ2QMs525k",
    "type": "registry-provider-platforms",
    "attributes": {
      "os": "linux",
      "arch": "amd64",
      "filename": "terraform-provider-aws_3.1.1_linux_amd64.zip",
      "shasum": "8f69533bc8afc227b40d15116358f91505bb638ce5919712fbb38a2dec1bba38",
      "permissions": {
        "can-delete": true,
        "can-upload-asset": true
      },
      "provider-binary-uploaded": true
    },
    "relationships": {
      "registry-provider-version": {
        "data": {
          "id": "provver-y5KZUsSBRLV9zCtL",
          "type": "registry-provider-versions"
        }
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "provider-binary-download": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b..."
    }
  }
}
```

### Note

> `provider-binary-uploaded` may be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`. The response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload` instead.

Reviewer 2: same as 1026

> ### Note
> 
> `provider-binary-uploaded` may be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`. The response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Note

-> **Note:** The `provider-binary-uploaded` attribute will be `false` if that file hasn't been uploaded to Archivist yet. In this case, instead of including a link to `provider-binary-download`, the response will include an upload link `provider-binary-upload`.
```

> ## Delete Platform (private provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Delete Platform (Private Provider)
```

`DELETE /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/versions/:version/platforms/:os/:arch`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to delete a provider platform from. The organization must already exist, and the token authenticating the API request must belong to the "owners" team or a member of the "owners" team. |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider for which the platform is being deleted. For private providers this is the same as the `:organization_name` parameter                                                                  |

> | `:name`              | The name of the provider for which the platform is being destroyed                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: Add periods to the remaining descriptions for consistency.

| [204][] | Nothing                   | Success                                                     |
| [403][] | [JSON API error object][] | Forbidden - public provider curation disabled               |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | Provider not found or user not authorized to perform action |

### Sample Request 

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request DELETE \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/hashicorp/registry-providers/private/hashicorp/aws/versions/3.1.1/platforms/linux/amd64
```

## Get a Provider

`GET /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                 |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization the provider belongs to.                                                       |

> | `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. For private providers this is the same as the `:organization_name` parameter |

Reviewer: Should "parameter" actually be attribute here? If so, we should update this in all of the places where you have this line.

```suggestion
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider. For private providers this is the same as the `organization_name` parameter. |
```

Author: The "Parameter" seciton here is referring to the path params (highlighted)
/organizations/`:organization_name`/registry-providers/`:registry_name`/`:namespace`/`:name`/versions/`:version`/platforms/`:os`/`:arch`

The attributes section under "Key path" are referring to the key/value pairs being passed in the body upon CREATE, UPDATE, PATCH requests. 

The GET and DELETE endpoints do not have that info. 

Hope that clarifies! I think the wording for "Key path" could be different but am leaving that to stay consistent with the existing API docs

Reviewer: ahh okay gotcha - thank you!!

    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-providers/public/hashicorp/aws"
    }
  }
}
```

## Delete a Provider

`DELETE /organizations/:organization_name/registry-providers/:registry_name/:namespace/:name`

### Parameters

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to delete a provider from. The organization must already exist, and the token authenticating the API request must belong to the "owners" team or a member of the "owners" team. |
| `:namespace`         | The namespace of the provider that will be deleted.                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `:name`              | The name of the provider that will be deleted.                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: Unsure if it's worth mentioning if the delete will delete the provider and all of it's associated versions and platform binaries 🤷‍♀️

| `:registry_name`     | Indicates whether this is a publicly maintained provider or private. Must be either `public` or `private`.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

| Status  | Response                  | Reason                                                      |
| ------- | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| [204][] | Nothing                   | Success                                                     |
| [403][] | [JSON API error object][] | Forbidden - public provider curation disabled               |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | Provider not found or user not authorized to perform action |

> ### Sample Request (private provider)

Reviewer: Can you go through and capitalize all of the things in parentheses (I see we have some places where public provider isn't capitalized). We capitalize everything in titles, so that's why i'm asking for this.

```suggestion
### Sample Request (Private Provider)
```
